---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "system_command | Data Source | terraform-provider-system"
name: "system_command"
type: "Data Source"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  system_command executes a user-defined command and provides the stdout, stderr, and exit code.
---

# Data Source: system_command

`system_command` executes a user-defined command and provides the stdout, stderr, and exit code.

## Usage

### whoami

```terraform
data "system_command" "whoami" {
  command = "whoami"
}
```

### uname

```terraform
data "system_command" "uname" {
  command = "uname -a"
}
```



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `command` (String) Command to execute including arguments. The command is executed in a shell context. Example: `uname -a`.

### Optional

- `expect` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--expect))

### Read-Only

- `exit_code` (Number) Exit code returned from the command.
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `stderr` (String) Base64 encoded stderr from the command. Captured stdout is limited to a maximum size of 65536 bytes by default to prevent unindented growth of the terraform state. If necessary, adjust the limit using the attribute `expect.stderr_limit`. If the stdout exceeds this limit, the data source fails.
- `stdout` (String) Base64 encoded stdout from the command. Captured stdout is limited to a maximum size of 65536 bytes by default to prevent unindented growth of the terraform state. If necessary, adjust the limit using the attribute `expect.stdout_limit`. If the stdout exceeds this limit, the data source fails.

<a id="nestedblock--expect"></a>
### Nested Schema for `expect`

Optional:

- `exit_code` (Number) Expected exit code from the command. If the exit code returned from the command differs, the data source fails with an error. Defaults to `0`.
- `stderr` (Boolean) If `true`, the stderr from the command will be captured and provided in output attribute `stderr`. Defaults to `true`.
- `stderr_limit` (Number) Maximum bytes read from stderr of the command. Define a reasonable limit to prevent unindented growth of the terraform state. Defaults to `65536`.
- `stdout` (Boolean) If `true`, the stdout from the command will be captured and provided in output attribute `stdout`. Defaults to `true`.
- `stdout_limit` (Number) Maximum bytes read from stdout of the command. Define a reasonable limit to prevent unindented growth of the terraform state. Defaults to `65536`.

