---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "system_packages_apk | Resource | terraform-provider-system"
name: "system_packages_apk"
type: "Resource"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  system_packages_apk manages one or more apk packages on the remote system.
---

# Resource: system_packages_apk

`system_packages_apk` manages one or more apk packages on the remote system.

Use the `system_packages_apk` resource to manage packages on Alpine systems.

-> The resource requires the `apk` package management.

## Usage

### Single package

This example ensures that the apk package `nginx` is installed.

```terraform
resource "system_packages_apk" "single" {
  package {
    name = "nginx"
  }
}
```

### Multiple packages

This example ensures that the apk packages `nginx` and `openssl` are installed.

```terraform
resource "system_packages_apk" "multiple" {
  package {
    name = "nginx"
  }

  package {
    name = "openssl"
  }
}
```

## Notes

This section describes general notes for using the `system_packages_apk` resource.

- The resource the remembers whether packages are installed at the time the resource is created.
- When the resource is deleted, only packages which have been installed by the resource will be removed.
- Avoid defining multiple `system_packages_apk` resources in the same Terraform configuration. Instead, manage all required packages in a single `system_packages_apk` resource.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `package` (Block Set, Min: 1) List of packages (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--package))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) ID of the apk packages
- `internal` (String, Sensitive)

<a id="nestedblock--package"></a>
### Nested Schema for `package`

Required:

- `name` (String) Name of the package

Optional:

- `version` (String) Sticky version of the installed package. Supported values consist of a constraint component and a version component. Supported constraints are `=` (strictly equal), `<` (strictly lower), `<=` (lower or equal), `~` (fuzzy), `>=` (greater or equal), `>` (strictly greater). Example values are `=~1.1` to pin the major/minor version or `=1.1.1n-r0` to pin the exact version. For details on the semantics and more examples, refer to the Alpine wiki on [Holding a specific package back](https://wiki.alpinelinux.org/wiki/Package_management#Holding_a_specific_package_back).

Read-Only:

- `versions` (List of Object) Computed version information of the package (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--package--versions))

<a id="nestedatt--package--versions"></a>
### Nested Schema for `package.versions`

Read-Only:

- `available` (String)
- `installed` (String)

