---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "system_systemd_unit | Resource | terraform-provider-system"
name: "system_systemd_unit"
type: "Resource"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  system_systemd_unit manages a systemd unit on the remote system.
---

# Resource: system_systemd_unit

`system_systemd_unit` manages a systemd unit on the remote system.

## Usage

### Start a timer

This example ensures that the systemd unit `hello-world.timer` is started. The unit must exist.

```terraform
resource "system_systemd_unit" "hello_world" {
  type   = "timer"
  name   = "hello-world"
  status = "started"
}
```

### Enable a timer

This example ensures that the systemd unit `hello-world.timer` is enabled and started. The unit must exist.

```terraform
resource "system_systemd_unit" "hello_world" {
  type    = "timer"
  name    = "hello-world"
  enabled = true
}
```

## Notes

This section describes general notes for using the `system_systemd_unit` resource.

- The systemd unit must exist; consider using the `system_file` resource to create and manage the unit file
- The resource does not create or delete the systemd unit file.
- The resource reloads the systemd configuration files (`systemctl daemon-reload`) before retrieving the current unit state or before changing the state of a unit.
- The resource remembers the `enabled` state and the `status` state at the time the resource is created. This state is referred to as the *original state*.
- When the resource is deleted, the unit is reverted to the original state.
- Avoid defining multiple `system_systemd_unit` resources, which manage the same unit in the same Terraform configuration. Instead, merge all attributes in a single `system_systemd_unit` resource.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) Name of the unit without the type suffix. The unit must exist.
- `type` (String) Unit type. Supported unit types are `service`, `socket`, `device`, `mount`, `automount`, `swap`, `target`, `path`, `timer`, `slice`, and `scope`.

### Optional

- `enabled` (Boolean) If `true`, the unit will be enabled. If not provided, the unit will not be changed.
- `reload_on` (Set of String) Set of arbitrary strings which when changed will trigger a reload of the unit.
- `restart_on` (Set of String) Set of arbitrary strings which when changed will trigger a restart of the unit when changed.
- `scope` (String) Scope in which the unit is managed. In the current iteration, the only supported scope is `system`. In future iterations, the scopes `user` and `global` may be added. Defaults to `system`
- `status` (String) Status of the unit. If `started`, the unit will be started. If `stopped`, the unit will be stopped.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) ID of the systemd unit
- `internal` (String, Sensitive)

